SanitizerConfig - define valid config (#41945)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/sanitizer/sanitizer/index.md

### Exceptions

- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}

>   - : The `configuration` parameter is passed a:

Reviewer: super nit, but it will read better with the article "a" duplicated in the bullets, and maybe even better with "passed one of the following"

Author: Done in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/41945/files#r2558426713

      For example, a configuration that includes both "allowed" and "removed" configuration settings.
    - String that does not have the value `"default"`.

## Description

The constructor creates a new {{domxref("Sanitizer")}} object, which can be used to filter unwanted elements and attributes from HTML or documents before they are inserted/parsed into the DOM.

The default `Sanitizer` allows only XSS-safe input by default, omitting elements such as {{HTMLElement("script")}}, {{HTMLElement("frame")}}, {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}, {{HTMLElement("object")}}, `<use>`, and event handler attributes from their respective allow lists, and disallowing data attributes, and comments.
It is created if `"default"` or no object is passed to the constructor.

The constructor can be passed a {{domxref("SanitizerConfig")}} with a [valid configuration](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SanitizerConfig#valid_configuration) to customize the sanitizer behavior.

### Allow and remove configuration is persistent

A valid configuration can specify either `elements` or `removeElements` arrays (but not both) and either the `attributes` or `removeAttributes` arrays (but not both).

> The arrays that are defined when the object is constructed persist for its lifetime, and their contents may be modified by the `Sanitizer` methods.

Reviewer: "persist for its lifetime" is weird. What else might happen to them?

In most cases which arrays are defined does not particularly matter because, for example, the {{domxref("Sanitizer/allowAttribute","allowAttribute()")}} method can implement the same behavior by adding the attribute to the `attributes` array or by removing it from the `removeAttributes` array.

> The main case to note is that if you have a remove configuration then you cannot have per-element attributes, as these must be defined on the `elements` array.

Author: ```suggestion
The constructor can be passed a {{domxref("SanitizerConfig")}} with a [valid configuration](/en-US/docs/Web/API/SanitizerConfig#valid_configuration) to customize the sanitizer behavior.

A valid configuration can specify either `elements` or `removeElements` arrays (but not both) and either the `attributes` or `removeAttributes` arrays (but not both).
In most cases it does not matter which of these arrays you use because, for example, the {{domxref("Sanitizer/allowAttribute","allowAttribute()")}} method can implement the same behavior by adding the attribute to the `attributes` array or by removing it from the `removeAttributes` array.
The main thing to note is that if you have a configuration with `removeElements` then you cannot have per-element attributes, as these must be defined on the `elements` array.
```
